README.adoc, before:

:hivemq-link: http://www.hivemq.com
:influxdb-github-link: https://github.com/influxdata/influxdb
:hivemq-support: http://www.hivemq.com/support/
:docker: https://www.docker.com/
:kitematic: https://kitematic.com/
:influx-docker-github: https://github.com/tutumcloud/influxdb


== InfluxDB Monitoring Plugin

=== Purpose

The InfluxDB Monitoring plugin allows {hivemq-link}[HiveMQ] to connect to an instance of {influxdb-github-link}[InfluxDB] for time series monitoring.

=== Installation InfluxDB Monitoring Plugin

1. Copy the jar file `plugins/hivemq-influxdb-monitoring-plugin-<version>.jar` to your `[HIVEMQ_HOME]/plugins` folder
2. Copy the `conf/influxdb.properties` file to your `[HIVEMQ_HOME]/conf` folder
3. Modify the `influxdb.properties` file for your needs
4. Done

=== Quick Start InfluxDB

1. Download and install {docker}[Docker] for your platform
2. Download and install {kitematic}[Kitematic]
3. Go to {influx-docker-github}[github.com/tutumcloud/influxdb] and follow the setup instructions
4. Start Kitematic and create an InfluxDB container (under `My Images` tab)
5. Rebind the ports to match your `influxdb.properties`
6. Done


=== Usage
1. Start InfluxDB
2. Start HiveMQ

=== Configuration

The InfluxDB Monitoring plugin uses its own configuration file `influxdb.properties` which must be placed in HiveMQ's config folder.

==== General Configuration

|===
| Config name | Required | Description | Default

| mode | no | The mode configured for the InfluxDB sender. Possibilities are: http, tcp, udp | http
| host | no | The host name of the InfluxDB instance. | localhost
| port | no | The port number the InfluxDB instance is listening. | 8086
| protocol | no | The protocol the InfluxDB sender uses in http mode. | http
| auth | no | The authorization string to be used to connect to InfluxDB, of format username:password. | `no default`
| prefix | no | The measurement prefix. | `no default`
| database | no | The database name. | hivemq
| reportingInterval | no | The reporting interval in seconds. | 1
| connectTimeout | no | The connect and read timeout in seconds. | 5000
|tags | no | The tags for each metric. Listed as a semicolon ( `;` ) separated list. | `no default`

|===

.Example Configuration
[source]
----
mode:http
host:localhost
port:8086
protocol:http
auth:

prefix:
database:hivemq

reportingInterval:1
connectTimeout:5000

tags:host=hivemq1
----

=== Need help?

If you encounter any problems, we are happy to help. The best place to get in contact is our {hivemq-support}[support].

Commit message:

Fixed ReloadingPropertiesReader bug when properties are edited Added possibility to overwrite  config file with Environmental Variables

README.adoc, after:

:hivemq-link: http://www.hivemq.com
:influxdb-github-link: https://github.com/influxdata/influxdb
:hivemq-support: http://www.hivemq.com/support/
:docker: https://www.docker.com/
:kitematic: https://kitematic.com/
:influx-docker-github: https://github.com/tutumcloud/influxdb


== InfluxDB Monitoring Plugin

=== Purpose

The InfluxDB Monitoring plugin allows {hivemq-link}[HiveMQ] to connect to an instance of {influxdb-github-link}[InfluxDB] for time series monitoring.

=== Installation InfluxDB Monitoring Plugin

1. Copy the jar file `plugins/hivemq-influxdb-monitoring-plugin-<version>.jar` to your `[HIVEMQ_HOME]/plugins` folder
2. Copy the `conf/influxdb.properties` file to your `[HIVEMQ_HOME]/conf` folder
3. Modify the `influxdb.properties` file for your needs
4. Done

=== Quick Start InfluxDB

1. Download and install {docker}[Docker] for your platform
2. Download and install {kitematic}[Kitematic]
3. Go to {influx-docker-github}[github.com/tutumcloud/influxdb] and follow the setup instructions
4. Start Kitematic and create an InfluxDB container (under `My Images` tab)
5. Rebind the ports to match your `influxdb.properties`
6. Done


=== Usage
1. Start InfluxDB
2. Start HiveMQ

=== Configuration

The InfluxDB Monitoring plugin uses its own configuration file `influxdb.properties` which must be placed in HiveMQ's config folder.
Furthermore it is possible to overwrite the configuration with Environment Variables.

==== General Configuration

|===
| Config name | Required | Environment Variable| Description | Default

| mode | no | HIVEMQ_INFLUX_DB_PLUGIN_MODE | The mode configured for the InfluxDB sender. Possibilities are: http, tcp, udp | http
| host | no | HIVEMQ_INFLUX_DB_PLUGIN_HOST | The host name of the InfluxDB instance. | localhost
| port | no | HIVEMQ_INFLUX_DB_PLUGIN_PORT | The port number the InfluxDB instance is listening. | 8086
| protocol | no | HIVEMQ_INFLUX_DB_PLUGIN_PROTOCOL | The protocol the InfluxDB sender uses in http mode. | http
| auth | no | HIVEMQ_INFLUX_DB_PLUGIN_AUTH | The authorization string to be used to connect to InfluxDB, of format username:password. | `no default`
| prefix | no | HIVEMQ_INFLUX_DB_PLUGIN_PREFIX | The measurement prefix. | `no default`
| database | no | HIVEMQ_INFLUX_DB_PLUGIN_DATABASE | The database name. | hivemq
| reportingInterval | no | HIVEMQ_INFLUX_DB_PLUGIN_REPORTING_INTERVAL | The reporting interval in seconds. | 1
| connectTimeout | no | HIVEMQ_INFLUX_DB_PLUGIN_CONNECTION_TIMEOUT | The connect and read timeout in seconds. | 5000
|tags | no | HIVEMQ_INFLUX_DB_PLUGIN_TAGS | The tags for each metric. Listed as a semicolon ( `;` ) separated list. | `no default`

|===

.Example Configuration
[source]
----
mode:http
host:localhost
port:8086
protocol:http
auth:

prefix:
database:hivemq

reportingInterval:1
connectTimeout:5000

tags:host=hivemq1
----






=== Need help?

If you encounter any problems, we are happy to help. The best place to get in contact is our {hivemq-support}[support].
